docs/development.md, before:

# Labrador Developer Documentation

## Local Development

### Requirements

- The `make` command.
- A configured Golang development environment.
- A configured Docker installation (optional).

### Building Only the Binary

```sh
make build

./dist/labrador_linux_amd64_v1/labrador version
```

### Building the Binary and Docker Image

```sh
make snapshot

./dist/labrador_linux_amd64_v1/labrador version

docker run -it --rm docker run -it --rm \
  ghcr.io/divergentcodes/labrador:dev-snapshot \
  version
```

### Build and Install the Local Binary

```sh
make install

labrador version
```

## Releasing

### Release Workflow Configuration

Most of what the Github Actions release workflow
(`.github/workflows/release.yaml`) does happens on the Github platform, and
the workflow is configured with all necessary Github permissions.

The Github Docker container registry is hosted through Github Packages, which
is organization wide in scope.

Note: A permission error will fail the release workflow if there are active
tag protection rules and no prior releases. Cut a single initial release,
and then create the tag protection rule `v*`.

### Triggering Releases

Releases are triggered by creating and pushing a Git tag in SemVer format.

```sh
git tag "v0.0.1-alpha01"; git push --tags
```

Then the Github Actions workflow `.github/workflows/release.yaml` will:
- Login to the Docker container registry.
- Build everything.
- Push CLI binaries for multiple platforms to the repository Releases.
- Push a Docker image to the Docker container registry.
- Ask `pkg.go.dev` to pull new docs from the repository, if it is public.

### Release Artifacts

The Golang binary is compiled into several platform architectures, defined
in the `.goreleaser` file. Each file is bundled into a Github release,
along with checksums and a changelog.

A Docker image for the `x86_64` architecture is built and pushed to the Docker
container registry.

Project and module documentation is pulled by `pkg.go.dev` at the end of
the workflow, if the repository is public.

### Changelogs

GoReleaser will automatically generate a changelog and supply it along with the
release. Each new commit to the `main` branch will have an individual line
item in the changelog.

Changelog items are grouped by the commit message prefix:
- `feat:` prefixed commits are grouped under "Features" in the changelog.
- `bug:` prefixed commits are grouped under "Bug fixes" in the changelog.
- All other commits are grouped under "Others" in the changelog.

The commits with the following prefixes are omitted from the changelog:
- `ignore:`
- `docs:`
- `test:`

Commits with the following words anywhere are omitted from the changelog:
- `typo`
- `refactor`

Commit message:

ignore: docs on initiating package docs

docs/development.md, after:

# Labrador Developer Documentation

## Local Development

### Requirements

- The `make` command.
- A configured Golang development environment.
- A configured Docker installation (optional).

### Building Only the Binary

```sh
make build

./dist/labrador_linux_amd64_v1/labrador version
```

### Building the Binary and Docker Image

```sh
make snapshot

./dist/labrador_linux_amd64_v1/labrador version

docker run -it --rm docker run -it --rm \
  ghcr.io/divergentcodes/labrador:dev-snapshot \
  version
```

### Build and Install the Local Binary

```sh
make install

labrador version
```

## Releasing

### Release Workflow Configuration

Most of what the Github Actions release workflow
(`.github/workflows/release.yaml`) does happens on the Github platform, and
the workflow is configured with all necessary Github permissions.

The Github Docker container registry is hosted through Github Packages, which
is organization wide in scope.

Note: A permission error will fail the release workflow if there are active
tag protection rules and no prior releases. Cut a single initial release,
and then create the tag protection rule `v*`.

### Triggering Releases

Releases are triggered by creating and pushing a Git tag in SemVer format.

```sh
git tag "v0.0.1-alpha01"; git push --tags
```

Then the Github Actions workflow `.github/workflows/release.yaml` will:
- Login to the Docker container registry.
- Build everything.
- Push CLI binaries for multiple platforms to the repository Releases.
- Push a Docker image to the Docker container registry.
- Ask `pkg.go.dev` to pull new docs from the repository, if it is public.

### Release Artifacts

The Golang binary is compiled into several platform architectures, defined
in the `.goreleaser` file. Each file is bundled into a Github release,
along with checksums and a changelog.

A Docker image for the `x86_64` architecture is built and pushed to the Docker
container registry.

Package documentation is pulled by `pkg.go.dev` at the end of the workflow,
if the repository is public.
Initializing the package documentation requires manually "requesting" it
on the page it will be located at:
https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/divergentcodes/labrador


### Changelogs

GoReleaser will automatically generate a changelog and supply it along with the
release. Each new commit to the `main` branch will have an individual line
item in the changelog.

Changelog items are grouped by the commit message prefix:
- `feat:` prefixed commits are grouped under "Features" in the changelog.
- `bug:` prefixed commits are grouped under "Bug fixes" in the changelog.
- All other commits are grouped under "Others" in the changelog.

The commits with the following prefixes are omitted from the changelog:
- `ignore:`
- `docs:`
- `test:`

Commits with the following words anywhere are omitted from the changelog:
- `typo`
- `refactor`
